README.md, before:

# Frigate with YOLOv9 EdgeTPU Detector

This Docker image extends [Frigate NVR](https://frigate.video/) (version 0.16.2) with the [YOLOv9 EdgeTPU detector plugin](https://github.com/dbro/frigate-detector-edgetpu-yolo9) for improved object detection using Coral EdgeTPU devices.

## What's Included

- **Base Image**: `ghcr.io/blakeblackshear/frigate:0.16.2`
- **Plugin**: YOLOv9 EdgeTPU detector plugin (v1.5)
- **Models**: All 3 model variants from release 1.5:
  - `yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (320x320, 10ms inference, mAP 50% of 40.6%)
  - `yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (512x512, 21ms inference, mAP 50% of 44.3%)
  - `yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (320x320, higher accuracy - 75 mAP vs 72 mAP)
- **Labels**: COCO dataset labels (labels-coco17.txt)

## Usage

### Docker Compose

```yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  frigate:
    image: ghcr.io/milch/frigate-yolov9-coral-docker:latest
    container_name: frigate
    restart: unless-stopped
    privileged: true
    devices:
      - /dev/bus/usb:/dev/bus/usb  # For Coral USB
      - /dev/apex_0:/dev/apex_0    # For PCIe/M.2 Coral
    volumes:
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
      - ./config:/config
      - ./storage:/media/frigate
      - type: tmpfs
        target: /tmp/cache
        tmpfs:
          size: 1000000000
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
      - "8554:8554"  # RTSP feeds
      - "8555:8555/tcp"  # WebRTC over tcp
      - "8555:8555/udp"  # WebRTC over udp
    environment:
      FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD: "password"
```

### Frigate Configuration

Update your `config.yml` to use the YOLOv9 detector:

```yaml
detectors:
  coral:
    type: edgetpu
    device: usb  # or 'pci' for PCIe/M.2
    model:
      path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      # Alternative models:
      # path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      # path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      width: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
      height: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
      type: yolo-generic
      labelmap_path: /opt/frigate/models/labels-coco17.txt

model:
  width: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
  height: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model

cameras:
  # Your camera configuration here
```

## Model Selection Guide

- **yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Recommended for most use cases. Fast inference (10ms) with good accuracy.
- **yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Better for detecting smaller or distant objects. Slower inference (21ms) but higher mAP.
- **yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Higher accuracy (75 mAP vs 72 mAP) compared to the relu6 320x320 model.

## Building Locally

```bash
docker build -t frigate-yolov9-coral:local .
```

## GitHub Actions

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and pushes the Docker image to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) on:
- Pushes to the `main` branch (tagged as `latest`)
- Version tags (e.g., `v1.0.0`)
- Manual workflow dispatch

The image will be available at: `ghcr.io/milch/frigate-yolov9-coral-docker:latest`

## Credits

- [Frigate NVR](https://github.com/blakeblackshear/frigate) by Blake Blackshear
- [YOLOv9 EdgeTPU Detector Plugin](https://github.com/dbro/frigate-detector-edgetpu-yolo9) by David Brown

## License

This project follows the same license as the upstream projects it depends on.

Commit message:

Align Docker image tags with upstream Frigate versions
Remove hardcoded version label from Dockerfile to allow GitHub Actions
to automatically set version labels based on git tags. Update README
with documentation on tagging scheme and release process to match
upstream Frigate version numbers.

README.md, after:

# Frigate with YOLOv9 EdgeTPU Detector

This Docker image extends [Frigate NVR](https://frigate.video/) (version 0.16.2) with the [YOLOv9 EdgeTPU detector plugin](https://github.com/dbro/frigate-detector-edgetpu-yolo9) for improved object detection using Coral EdgeTPU devices.

## What's Included

- **Base Image**: `ghcr.io/blakeblackshear/frigate:0.16.2`
- **Plugin**: YOLOv9 EdgeTPU detector plugin (v1.5)
- **Models**: All 3 model variants from release 1.5:
  - `yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (320x320, 10ms inference, mAP 50% of 40.6%)
  - `yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (512x512, 21ms inference, mAP 50% of 44.3%)
  - `yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite` (320x320, higher accuracy - 75 mAP vs 72 mAP)
- **Labels**: COCO dataset labels (labels-coco17.txt)

## Usage

### Docker Compose

```yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  frigate:
    image: ghcr.io/milch/frigate-yolov9-coral-docker:latest
    container_name: frigate
    restart: unless-stopped
    privileged: true
    devices:
      - /dev/bus/usb:/dev/bus/usb  # For Coral USB
      - /dev/apex_0:/dev/apex_0    # For PCIe/M.2 Coral
    volumes:
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
      - ./config:/config
      - ./storage:/media/frigate
      - type: tmpfs
        target: /tmp/cache
        tmpfs:
          size: 1000000000
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
      - "8554:8554"  # RTSP feeds
      - "8555:8555/tcp"  # WebRTC over tcp
      - "8555:8555/udp"  # WebRTC over udp
    environment:
      FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD: "password"
```

### Frigate Configuration

Update your `config.yml` to use the YOLOv9 detector:

```yaml
detectors:
  coral:
    type: edgetpu
    device: usb  # or 'pci' for PCIe/M.2
    model:
      path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      # Alternative models:
      # path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      # path: /opt/frigate/models/yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite
      width: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
      height: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
      type: yolo-generic
      labelmap_path: /opt/frigate/models/labels-coco17.txt

model:
  width: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model
  height: 320  # Use 512 if using the 512x512 model

cameras:
  # Your camera configuration here
```

## Model Selection Guide

- **yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Recommended for most use cases. Fast inference (10ms) with good accuracy.
- **yolov9-s-relu6-tpumax_512_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Better for detecting smaller or distant objects. Slower inference (21ms) but higher mAP.
- **yolov9-s-hardswish-tpumax_320_int8_edgetpu.tflite**: Higher accuracy (75 mAP vs 72 mAP) compared to the relu6 320x320 model.

## Building Locally

```bash
docker build -t frigate-yolov9-coral:local .
```

## GitHub Actions

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and pushes the Docker image to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) on:
- Pushes to the `main` branch (tagged as `latest`)
- Version tags matching upstream Frigate releases (e.g., `v0.16.2`)
- Manual workflow dispatch

### Available Tags

The image will be available at `ghcr.io/milch/frigate-yolov9-coral-docker` with the following tags:
- `latest` - Latest build from the main branch
- `0.16.2`, `0.16`, `0` - Semantic version tags matching the upstream Frigate version
- `main-<sha>` - SHA-based tags for main branch commits

### Creating a New Release

To create a new release that matches an upstream Frigate version:

1. Update the `FROM` line in the Dockerfile to the desired Frigate version
2. Commit the changes
3. Create and push a git tag matching the Frigate version:
   ```bash
   git tag v0.16.2
   git push origin v0.16.2
   ```

The GitHub Actions workflow will automatically build and publish the image with matching version tags.

## Credits

- [Frigate NVR](https://github.com/blakeblackshear/frigate) by Blake Blackshear
- [YOLOv9 EdgeTPU Detector Plugin](https://github.com/dbro/frigate-detector-edgetpu-yolo9) by David Brown

## License

This project follows the same license as the upstream projects it depends on.
